big thing is when you're thinking about
social how can you end up creating a
system
to create content at mass scale
and think of these pieces of content as
experiments not all the same type of
content different types of content
and then you can end up figuring out
what's going to hit and what's not and
then just double down on that
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
all right guys we are here with neil
patel and i'm super excited um this is
somebody that i've been following for a
long time i'm sure you get that all the
time neil but this is a big day for me
to really to actually meet you for the
first time because uh you know i i came
from a place where i didn't have a whole
lot and you know i i started following
you a long time ago and it's such a
weird thing to be able to talk to you
right now so i really appreciate your
time
and no problem thank you for having me
and uh you know for anyone listening
the reason i'm here is you did cold
outreach right you get a lot of no's
when you do that or a lot of pretty much
ignoring right where people don't
respond to you
but it's a numbers game and
this is proof that if you do cold
outreach and you try and you just keep
pushing you know when things aren't
going your way
good can happen
right on man so
look i know most the interviews that
i've seen with you are generally about
seo and about social media and what you
know best but
i kind of wanted to change the angle um
i actually recently been getting out of
seo just because i uh kind of got bored
with it a little bit and i did actually
uh
i watched your video on your website and
i did want to ask you about that um it
says that you really like helping small
businesses first of all why small
businesses over
helping like influencers or people that
are running big businesses what is there
a contrast there or is it just both
so i consider influencers people who are
starting small businesses okay
to me that's all one bucket even that
solo entrepreneur that's a small
business
i i do
you know i do like helping big
businesses as well but
that joy that feeling you get from
seeing that small business owner succeed
or they're life changing to me you can't
get that same feeling by helping a big
business now there's nothing wrong with
big you know corporations or the fortune
500 we just don't get that same
satisfaction seeing that smb or that
solo entrepreneur succeed and hire more
people and live a better life and
accomplish their dreams right okay yeah
so
look neil i i think my biggest question
that i wanted to ask you
is
what would you do if you went back to
having let's say like 40 000 subscribers
and
like a small blog
would you start doing a bunch of
blogging again or would you get more
because obviously you're more into video
these days what would you what would you
do if you're in that situation
i would see what you're naturally best
at
like if you look at a garyvee amazing on
video audio his team does the content a
text-based content the reason being is
he's better on video and audio and
that's what he enjoys
i on the flip side tend to enjoy the
tech space side more than the video i do
both but i still prefer the tech space
side so i do
i would start again with that just
because i play on strengths
and everyone needs to look at it
differently like if you look at the
opportunity right now podcasting is
booming very little competition adoption
rates going through the roof
but when you look at podcasting if you
don't like doing audio you don't like
doing interviews don't force yourself to
do it there's a lot of different
channels out there and if you want to do
video instead do video if you want to do
text based content said do that you want
to audio only do that like it literally
is up to you and it doesn't always have
to just be one or the other you can also
repurpose if i do a text based piece of
content i don't like video i can have
someone on my team repurse it repurpose
and make it into video or i can have
someone else on my team create a podcast
out of it if i don't like to do audio
okay um
yeah so i mean that's interesting
because obviously you do a ton of uh
text and you have a huge amount of
traffic going to your uh website
but do you think that people should
start like
getting more into video if they if they
like you just you don't think that they
should force themselves what you're
saying
it's
not about should you get into video or
not you should get into video you should
get into podcasts and you should get
into text-based content the question is
is are you the right person to do it do
you need a partner with someone do you
need to hire someone there's many
different solutions but you should use
them all
the web's gone omni channel if you want
to do well these days you can't just do
seo or content marketing or social media
marketing you have to go omnichannel
leverage all the platforms
so you brought up a point earlier about
cold outreach and you said hey look you
know this is how you get in front of
people is you just you you make the
effort and hopefully it works out do you
think that that's something that is what
we would recommend if maybe you were
starting out and you would start just
cold out reaching to a bunch of
influencers and maybe trying to get them
on an interview or just like get in
front of them and and talk to them
i would and
there's no harm in trying and the more
people you outreach to the more likely
someone's gonna say yes now i myself
don't see myself as an influencer or
someone who's successful or anything
like that but you outreach to me i said
yes and again i don't have an ego i
don't think i'm you know a tony robbins
or tom cruise or you know
literally 99.999999999999999
of the world has no clue how i am and
that's fine and but the whole thing is
you got to try and that was my whole
thing because before we started this
interview you said thank you and i
pretty much was telling you now you
should be proud that you
reached out like when i first started my
business and this is also why i like
helping smbs
i reach out to a lot of people and they
help me out for free i don't have the
money to pay them but that's the way the
world works like if you can't help each
other out then what's the point of just
being around like we should put others
before ourselves
that's awesome yeah i started uh getting
mentored by somebody that uh is pretty
well not really well known but he has
some clout and it was weird for me
because i started realizing that the
more successful you become the less ego
well at least the really successful
people the good people they have they
have less the less ego they have and so
i almost feel like
becoming more successful isn't even just
being better at something but almost
becoming a better person too
yeah it can be but there's also a lot of
good people who aren't quote unquote
successful assuming you mean success in
a monetary standpoint
that are great people like look at all
the firefighters you know
teachers police
there's just a lot of people out there
who do good heck i even believe the
people who do community service like
people
you know picking up trash every single
day from all these neighborhoods or
people delivering mail they're all great
people and they're doing a job that's
needed and without them we it would be
really hard to survive in society um
i believe a lot of that just comes down
to how you're raised
and one thing and i know you're big into
influencers the one thing i always just
tell people is especially if you're
going to get into the influencer game
you don't have to flash to do well i
think flashing is overrated just be
yourself and if people accept you for
who you are great if they can't
then that's their loss because
they're missing out on getting to know
amazing person
[Music]
yeah it's not i mean you know it
honestly sounds like you care a lot
about people and you know i really
admire that i think
the thing that i was curious about
around that is you know you say well i
don't really define at least is what i
heard i don't really define success by
like a monetary value but it sounds to
me like you define success based on the
type of person you are and
how much you contribute to helping
others is that is that right so i look
at success as you just being content if
you're content satisfied with your life
to me you're successful
i don't say happy because happiness is a
state of emotion that you can't maintain
you can't be happy and in cloud 9 24 7.
but you don't want to you don't want to
have the emotional roller coaster where
you're happy one minute and depressed
and sad the next minute and you know
there's nothing wrong with being sad and
depressed it happens to a lot of people
most of us
but the goal is to be content we're just
satisfied with life you know a lot of
people like i want this home i want this
car do you really want it you're going
to have to work that much more to you
know to achieve that
if you just want to go and cook and
you're amazing at cooking and it doesn't
pay you what you want but you can cut
back on your life
to me
if you can figure out how to cook for a
living
and you're satisfied and you're happy
cooking and you may not have that big
home or that ferrari or whatever to me
you're successful because you're doing
what you want to do
and i believe that's more important than
being like i'm going to go chase a quick
buck or i'm going to even chase money
but that's more long term and i'm going
to go build a tesla or spacex like
that's not the majority of us we're no
elon musk
and i actually read some stuff about you
a while ago about how you used to um you
know do a bunch of websites and you'd
make all this money and then
and then it wouldn't work out like long
term right and um
it sounds interesting to me because it
almost sounds like you transitioned into
like okay now i just care i just want to
be content and
first of all i don't know if that's true
or not the other thing that i said and
um but the second thing i wanted to ask
the one place one is true i used to have
a lot of websites right when i was a lot
younger probably like 10 15 years ago
okay and you definitely were like you're
like trying to live it up right
yeah and not as you live it up at that
time i just want to make money right
yeah
yeah eventually i learned that
focusing your time and energy to make
money is a bad use of time
uh if you want to make money though
there's nothing wrong with that
you're going to make money not by trying
to make money you're going to make money
by solving problems if you solve
problems that a lot of people face and
your solution is either affordable or
easy to use you can do well in the long
run
what i ended up learning over time is
when i started making money i would buy
crap
watches or stupid stuff that i didn't
need and make me happy for a week maybe
even a month and then i'll just go back
to my normal self
and once i really realized in life on
what
satisfied me and made me content or
happy
then i shifted my focus like i enjoy
walking every single day with my
daughter
to me that's great
you know i don't want a day where i
don't walk with my daughter whether it's
for 30 minutes or hour just that nice
casual stroll with my wife and my
daughter and like we enjoy that so you
got to figure it out and sometimes that
doesn't go well with the web you know
what i mean by that is like you know
everyone wants those crazy cool pictures
wearing a suit you know
on a stroll
down rodeo drive
i'm that guy wearing
gym shorts and a white t-shirt that has
ketchup stains on it because of my child
and i'm walking down a neighborhood
where the homes don't you know all have
gates in front of it and people don't
have ferraris in front of their homes
and i'm okay with that and i like that
so we're talking about being content and
i i kind of want to know neil like what
obviously you have to have some ambition
right like it's it's there's a certain
level of contentment in being ambitious
and so what would what would be that
next thing for you do you think like
that you still get to
maintain this level of contentment but
at the same time working towards
something that you want
so i just like winning
and my goal is to create one of the
biggest marketing technology companies
there's nothing to do with the money
or how many people i can employ it's
just i want to win it's nice to employ
people and it's nice to make their lives
better but at the end of the day just
being honest i like winning
yeah i i like that a lot because
at least i like knowing that you still
have that competition in you because i
what i see with some people especially
some of the people that i've been
talking to they've been mentoring me is
that you know they they get to a point
where they make enough money and they
just they get to contentment but they
they lose the competitiveness and they
just are bored but it sounds to me like
you're not bored you're still having fun
i'm having a ton of fun and i wouldn't
have it any other way like if you're
doing something that you don't like
you know most people tell you go quit
and do something else sometimes it's not
that easy because you need to pay bills
or whatever your family situation is
but i would work on a side hustle and
then once the side hustle becomes big
enough then transition
hmm
uh another thing neil it
so obviously like everybody i mean at
least in my belief everybody should have
somebody to look up to i was curious
what your who your person would be that
you look up to as somebody that
like you're like wow that person's so
cool
i i'm a big fan of bill gates
not because of his success at microsoft
although
that shouldn't be undermined he did an
amazing job there i'm a huge fan of
gates on what he's done with his wealth
and how he's trying to solve some of the
world's toughest problems like you know
stop covid stop malaria whatever it may
be uh
you know help with the earth and cause
less pollution now i i know a lot of
people are just like ah you know
i hate them i don't want to do vaccines
or whatever i'm not trying to tell
people what to do or what not to do i
just like the mission
of gates himself on which he's trying to
play his money towards good and trying
to help people well whatever that means
um so i i was watching a master class
and that guy neil degrasse tyson had a
something that he brought up that was
really interesting he said the the best
question that you can ask is the one
that you don't know
and one of the things i was i was
curious is if if you were okay so what
do you think the question is that i
should be asking
that maybe i don't already i don't know
about if i were to go to the next level
if you know what i'm saying
when you say you want to go to the next
level what do you mean
um i think that's also yeah that's
probably a better question that's
probably the question right uh yeah i
mean that's kind of
so again like i i think out of
i've been i've been doing seo for like
the last five years and i uh
started doing youtube videos and i've
done over like a couple thousand of them
like live streams
and i kind of wanted to get out of it
because i i i get more interested in
like building engagement building social
and so i think for me like i'm kind of
at this transition point where i'm going
more into that but um i'm just curious
like what what you think about that
direction
i i i think it's great and i think that
is where the web is moving i don't think
it's going to be
you know
seo is big but i think social is going
to be even bigger
five ten years from now and i think
social is gonna expand
from just being on one of these social
networks to you even very oculus devices
and shopping with your friends in a
virtual mall
and trying stuff out and buying it out
and you know amazon comes and delivers
it to you within literally one hour
um
and i i honestly think like that is
where the future is going but the big
thing is when you're thinking about
social
how can you end up creating a system
to create content at mass scale
and think of these pieces of content as
experiments not all the same type of
content different types of content
and then you can end up figuring out
what's going to hit and what's not
and then just double down on that
and if you do that for yourselves as
well as a lot of companies out there i
think you can do really well
sorry struggle content creation side
that's the biggest issue and making a
formula to mass-produce content in
different types of content because
that's how you experiment
so obviously you've been experimenting a
lot with content what are you what have
you been finding that's been working at
least on the video side of things
going live although you said you don't
want to do that much more no no i love
live i just don't want to do i don't
want to do videos about seo anymore as
i'm saying uh okay yeah i think going
live is huge i you know all these social
networks want to overtake television so
what are they doing they're creating
their own version of it right going live
you can have your own version of the
kardashians just bust out your phone
talk in it and boom you're off into the
raises and what they do is just
encourage you because they want more
people to stay on their site even if you
have very little followers they'll still
push it out to more people just because
they want more people to interact with
you so you do it more often so that's
one thing the
next thing when it comes to content
types out there is
a lot of people are trying to create
content what i mean by creating content
they're sitting down they're like hmm
what content should i create instead of
just looking at your life and looking at
your day and figuring out what content
can you pull from that
for example i'm on this interview with
you right i can go take the recorded
version take snippets of it and just pop
it on the web
that's the example of me posting content
without having to sit down and focus on
just quote unquote creating content so
again like i'm really big an engagement
neil and i think like one of the things
that i found that works really well at
least for my youtube stuff and in live
is like trying to build as much
engagement as possible
and
i think one of the things i wanted to
know from you is like what what do you
think works really well for getting
people to
to kind of really give the algorithm
what it wants like high average session
durations uh lots of likes lots of
anything that causes tons of comments
comments are the key to most these
algorithms more than duration or any of
that because if you're getting comments
that means you're going to get the
duration naturally because people are
engaging enough to leave a comment
optimize for comments comments typically
create virality i'll do things like ask
questions in my video and stuff like
that so that way it encourages more
comments
but
you know one you have to create good
content two ask questions to encourage
comments three do something different
than everyone else if you do the same me
too stuff you're probably not going to
do as well just like how seo saturated
youtube social media is becoming
saturated as well everyone's used to
post the same lamborghini picture
everyone used to show the same flashy
picture of them in some outfit or in
fancy home or a jet like do something
unique hmm
i just listened to this interview with
the guy that's the manager of uh mr
beast he's like the influence manager
and they talk about how
they try to go against as much as
possible what the norm is
that people are interacting with and and
expecting
and i think that is really interesting i
was actually considering doing a
a video where i was going to go up to
people at the beach and offer them an
seo audit just to like
you know get pull more views just to be
weird
um
but yeah i would shy away from the seo
stuff because no no yeah
yeah shy away from there's so much other
stuff you can get into i would just make
i was just saying like kind of like
break the norm just kind of weird people
out and i found i have found that the
more shock value you put into something
definitely you get way more engagement
but it's also about like not pushing the
needle too far because then you just
become hated yeah you don't want to
polarize right
um
so
so sorry to keep bringing it back to
this nail bit like
if you were like if you were in the
position because i guess i can't really
ask for me because you don't really
kind of know the position i'm in but if
you were to go into a position of
somebody that wanted to be more
influential and let's say they had like
20 or 30 000 subscribers
what would be the questions that you
would be asking
to to get you know
uh
like from let's say forty thousand
dollars a month revenue to like eighty
thousand uh and obviously double double
your uh your following like what would
be the biggest questions you'd be asking
so if you're already making money that
means whatever you're doing to monetize
is working but i would ask yourselves a
few questions one how often are you
going live the more you go live the more
engagement followers you get two when
you're going live have you ever tried
selling while you're live that's super
effective very few people do it third is
have you tried going live with other
people so like you and i in theory could
have done this on instagram and online
live at the same time
right by doing that my followers would
have seen you your father would have
seen me we both would have grown our
following
the fourth thing i would ask is how many
times a day are you creating content and
if you say like oh once a day or twice a
day i'd be like all right
try to do five six times a day more the
better because the more people are going
to eventually see you
the next thing i would ask is what
social networks are you pushing out on
right now tick tock and linkedin
they're causing content to go more viral
than any other place facebook twitter
you know instagram snap you're not gonna
go as viral compared to some of those
other networks your reach is gonna be
hampered because they want you to spend
money on advertising the next thing you
should ask yourself is you you're
monetizing but you have your own
products or service pitching someone
else's stuff and telling someone else's
stuff doesn't work as well as peddling
your own stuff assuming you have
something that's really good that you
believe in that you love you're gonna do
way better than pushing someone else's
stuff and if you're not sure what to
create
you if you're already making some money
like you mentioned that means you're
already pushing someone else's stuff see
what's doing the best and based on that
that'll give you ideas of what you can
create
and i'll start off with that
do you we so we have like a couple
minutes left we got like nine minutes
left um i wanted to ask do you think
that
what do you think the most like if you
were to pick three platforms right now
where would you where would you uh put
your money like tick tock youtube
linkedin linkedin would be number one i
know a lot of people look at this b2b
but hey everyone on there is also
consumer so linkedin would be number one
tick tock would be number two youtube
would be number three
and if you added google in there would
that be like number four or would it be
like
like i'm talking about one of the lists
really well
huh so do you think that okay so this is
a big thing i don't want to ask you a
loaded question i don't want to make
about seo but
do you think that seo is dead or is
dying
no i don't think it's dead or dying i
think
it's a channel you can't ignore and you
have to do
do you put all your eggs in the basket
no just like you shouldn't put all your
eggs in the paid ad basket just like you
shouldn't put all your eggs in the tick
tock basket these days you have to go
omni channel
the one thing that people aren't
investing enough in that they used to do
years and years ago
that they're lacking is building a brand
if i had to pick one thing in marketing
that people lack these days is they
don't try to build a brand
and here's what i mean by that when you
want a car
if you've got to buy a car tomorrow what
kind of car would you buy i just got a
mustang i just got a ford mustang okay
when you bought a mustang how did you go
about buying that mustang well i
originally wanted a camaro but they
didn't have it and that was the only
other convertible they had so
okay did you go and google for a mustang
well
for the camaro or
originally i did but then when i walked
in i
i wanted i mean i already kind of knew
what i wanted based on the research yeah
i think i actually did
okay so how about shoes if you want
shoes what brand would you buy
oh man i don't know like probably adidas
okay do you google for adidas or do you
just go and be like
i know i like adidas so i'm gonna go to
a store or go to a website and buy
adidas yeah no 100 i just i just go
there
exactly so sometimes you do your
research google's powerful seo is
powerful and you should do it but what's
even more powerful is building that
brand
we know microsoft has amazing products
because they're just microsoft we know
google is google we know instagram is
instagram like all these big companies
do well because they just have a brand
beats by dre did really well not because
of seo sure seo drives revenue and you
should do it just like you should do
paid ads and you should do social media
marketing but at the end of the day
beats by dre did really well because
they built an awesome product and they
created an amazing brand
so what would you do to build an amazing
brand if nobody really knew who you were
focus on the product focus on the
service
if you're an influencer i would focus on
creating amazing unique content that's
super thoughtful
a great example of this is there's this
photo profile that i keep seeing pop up
on my instagram
and this guy teaches you how to take
amazing photos from like uh iphone
straight up like he'll use like the
selfie stick and like put it up in the
tree and make it come down
like a little tape a little leaf at the
end of the phone where the camera is
like he does some crazy stuff what's his
name and that's a neat content i don't
know
okay
i'm not into photography but i liked a
lot of his photos
so i think that's the big thing is what
you're saying is like stand out don't
just be
it kind of like but do you think that
the shock value is necessary because i
do see that a lot like you've probably
seen like that channel how to basic
where the guy like starts out on how to
make a cake and he starts throwing eggs
all over the walls and it's just like
you're not expecting it
yeah
there's this other dude i think he's
supposed to go to like princeton or
columbia or one of these colleges little
kid
graduated from high school and he just
cooks
and
he's just like how to make chipotle's
guacamole recipe and then like he breaks
it down and he's hilarious they could
put himself like some little salt bay
action and he's just like pound it
[Music]
go to the oven throw it on 275 degrees
boom 30 minutes it's done mmm crispy
tastes good like
the guy has a good person out there like
them like great content
so you do think it is very important
then that you represent your brand with
something that isn't just gonna because
that is the one thing neil is like and
that's part of the reason why i wanted
to talk about this today
is because i didn't want to go into you
know every interview i've seen from with
you generally asking ask oh you know
what should we do links and that kind of
thing i honestly am curious about more
info influencer stuff because i think a
lot of people don't really talk about it
i think a lot of people they're so
powerful too beats by day grew through
influencers
they had every single celebrity
not every but a lot of them you'd watch
basketball games boom people were
rocking out before the games started
wearing their beats by dre you know you
saw the kardashians where i'm like
you're seeing all the celebrities around
people like wow that's amazing i gotta
check out this product
influencers are huge look at
you know uh kylie cosmetics i believe
that's what it's called billion dollar
company kylie jenner she took her
influencer power created home business
now you can do that if you're an
influencer or you can just get paid to
promote other people's stuff either way
it's super powerful
so you talked about really liking to
help
small businesses and you kind of
considered those small businesses people
that were
influencers in a way
what what would you do if you wanted to
get next to maybe like
bigger influencers obviously you're
already
known so it's a little i would say
easier but if you weren't known what
would be the besides just cold out or
would you just say just comment and cold
out today i'm like just do what you did
yeah pull out okay
and then you wouldn't hold out reach
you're gonna get a lot of people saying
no but even if a small person say yes
it's a numbers game
most people just don't want to put in
the grind right and then do you would
you recommend building those relate
trying to build those relationships or
would you just like
do the uh like do an interview and then
just be like hey cool good to see you
that kind of thing
i i i would
build the relationships after you called
outreach and once you get to know some
of these people build relationships and
the reason being is because then you can
get introduced to their network you get
better deals um you can get better ideas
from them they'll get feedback
i i think business and life in general
if you're not going to build
relationships what's the point
do you do you mentor anybody neil or is
it like do you kind of just try to stick
to making sure that you have
um as much time to help as many people
as possible because obviously you have
that type of reach
the mass quantity mentoring by social
media content and blog content
but you don't do like uh one-on-ones i'm
sure i imagine you did back when you
were starting but not anymore probably
correct okay my now one-on-ones are
mentoring my daughter hmm awesome
um i gotta raise a child right gotta
help him grow up
that's changed for me i was big on
mentoring helping people one on one i
wish i had more time to do it but now i
want to grow my family eventually add
more kids and then you know watch him
grow up hmm that's awesome
that's cool that you uh a little bit
selfish but that is what i want to do i
mean i think maybe not so though because
at least you're still helping a ton of
people and you said that you wanted to
build this technology that
helps a ton of people and and i think it
is true like at a certain point how much
are you going to help one person unless
maybe that person helps millions of
people i don't know but
yeah i mean either way i respect it for
sure
um thank you all right neil well we got
one minute left um i just wanted to ask
or at least thank you and then ask um
you know
what would what would be like the thing
that you would like leave with i guess
kind of saying like with where you're at
and kind of what you've been discovering
what's like what's something that you'd
want to leave us with
experiment
and when you experiment do it over the
long haul here's what i mean by that
is not going to go the way you want
whatever content you create trying to be
an influencer grow
usually it's not going to work out the
first pass may not even work out the
fifth pass or even the 10th pass but if
you keep experimenting and trying new
things and you do that over a course of
a year or two years eventually you'll
figure out what's working for you and
just double down on that and most people
the reason they don't get to that status
as an influencer and i'm not saying i
have i'm just saying most people don't
get there because they don't experiment
enough
and they don't put in the years like
they expect the result to just happen
right away like you know you see that
dude who's on that longboard sipping on
some crap
and he went viral and he's huge and
everyone's just like dude look at him
and he threw up quite a bit of content
before that they're like why didn't why
can't i just create something like that
and just go viral and be popular
that's like a needle in a haystack and
that's what people are looking for and
it's just unrealistic for you know
almost all of us in this world
i would also say part of the reason why
that guy probably went so viral is
because of that angle he was just a
needle in a haystack and i think people
were blowing him up because they wanted
people to see him it was like an anomaly
that he was just hanging out on a on a
long board drinking cranberry juice that
was his like a good time for him right
and then he was singing along and all
that is enjoying life
right on man well thank you so much neil
for your time dude like i really
appreciate you actually honestly like it
this meant a lot more to me than i i
think you could probably imagine and so
i do really appreciate the time i know
you're a super busy guy and i was just
so shocked that uh that i was
able to have a talk with you so i really
appreciate it man
no worries